Import upload rights wiki page (#36)
canonical/kernel-docs: docs/reference/upload-rights.rst

> Upload Rights

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Upload rights
```

Same comment for all headings in the doc; treat it as sentence case.
Thanks.

Reviewer: Also for the sake of SEO i would suggest making the heading more explicit.

E.g. if you are trying to search for this topic would you just search "upload rights" (probably too vague) or "Kernel package upload rights"?

Our current Wiki content doesn't do great with search results.

Reviewer: Hi @gagath , it may seem like a redundant step but that is why the `toctree` directive does allow you to specify a different title than the full title on the actual page.

```
.. toctree::

   Upload rights <upload-rights>
```

Yes the full title is "Upload Rights - Ubuntu kernel documentation" but it could be made clearer with a more specific title.

I'll leave this up to you to decide.

But please do update the headings to be sentence case as per the style guide.

Thanks.

Reviewer: "kernel upload rights" is a lot more specific.
Thanks @gagath !

#############

> Those who are allowed to upload the kernel to the Ubuntu archive take their

Reviewer: Hi @gagath , I think this sentence should be reworded to indicate the impact / importance of the role instead of referencing how team members (are assumed) to _feel_ about the role.

The original Wiki doesn't put it this way either.

```suggestion
Those who are allowed to upload the kernel to the Ubuntu archive have a serious responsibility.
```

> responsibility very seriously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> Those who are allowed to upload the kernel to the Ubuntu archive take their
> responsibility very seriously.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Those who are allowed to upload the kernel to the Ubuntu archive have a
serious responsibility.
```

Hi @gagath , I think this sentence should be reworded to indicate the impact / importance of the role instead of referencing how team members (are assumed) to feel about the role.

The original Wiki doesn't put it this way either.

To obtain per package upload rights for the Ubuntu kernel, you can apply to

> become a member of the ubuntu-kernel-uploaders_ team in Launchpad.

Reviewer: This isn't about the content but how come the link works?

The syntax is missing the back ticks.

> To obtain per package upload rights for the Ubuntu kernel, you can apply to
> become a member of the ubuntu-kernel-uploaders_ team in Launchpad.
> 
> People can join this team only after going through a thorough application and
> review process. The sections below describe the general member profile of the
> ubuntu-kernel-uploaders_ team, as well as the application process.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain per package upload rights for the Ubuntu kernel, you can apply to
become a member of the ubuntu-kernel-uploaders_ team in Launchpad.
People can join this team only after going through a thorough application and
review process.

The sections below describe the general member profile of the
ubuntu-kernel-uploaders_ team, as well as the application process.
```

I suggest changing the structure slightly. The 1st paragraph is an intro to the topic. The 2nd paragraph provides a bit more context about the topic. The 3rd paragraph lets the user know the scope of what is covered about the topic in the current reference doc.

Member Profile
==============

Below is the general profile for those having per package upload rights for the
Ubuntu kernel.

- Members of the ubuntu-kernel-uploaders_ Launchpad team

- Generally have commit access to the `Ubuntu kernel git repositories`_

- Actively follow and participate in discussions and patch reviews on the
  `Ubuntu kernel-team mailing list`_

- Are collectively responsible for the maintenance of packages in the Ubuntu
  kernel package set for all supported releases as well as the development
  release

- Have a strong working knowledge of kernel packaging concepts and techniques,
  refined through experience

- Have a strong working knowledge of Ubuntu project procedures, especially
  those related to the release process and support commitments, and an
  understanding of the reasons why they exist

> - Have a history of substantial direct contributions to the distribution and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a history of substantial direct contributions to the distribution, in
```

If i understand this correctly, 'substantial contributions' is necessary, but a focus on contributions to kernel-related packages is important.

> - Have a history of substantial direct contributions to the distribution and
>   particularly the kernel related packages

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have a history of substantial, direct contributions to the distribution,
particularly to kernel-related packages
```

- Feel a sense of personal responsibility for the quality of Ubuntu releases
  and for the satisfaction of Ubuntu users

- Exercise great care in their work, with the understanding that their efforts
  have a direct impact on others, including:

  - every Ubuntu user
  - the Ubuntu release team
  - corporate partners who provide support for Ubuntu

Application Process
===================

As alluded to in the member profile above, membership consideration for the

> ubuntu-kernel-uploaders team adheres to a strict policy. Anyone considering

Reviewer: i'm not sure if you want to link to the launchpad  team here since the previous 2 references to 'ubuntu-kernel-uploaders' team is linked.

applying should meet **all** of the criteria listed below:

> 1. Have a history of substantial and direct contribution to the distribution;

Reviewer: https://github.com/canonical/kernel-docs/pull/36/files#r1872672861

I think both statements should be reconciled

Reviewer: Hi @gagath ,

Maybe clean up the Member profile section a little so the wording matches how it's listed in the Application process section as a criteria (where necessary).

And in the Application process section, update it to something like:

```
Anyone considering applying should align with the general profile outlined in the previous section and meet the criteria listed below:
```

And only list the 'additional' criteria to supplement the general profile expectations.

Thoughts?

   particularly the kernel related packages

2. A thorough understanding of the Ubuntu kernel patch submission process

   a. Demonstrates an understanding of this process by having submitted
      multiple patches which were accepted over a six-month development cycle
   b. Demonstrates an understanding of this process by having reviewed and
      Ack'd/Nack'd multiple patches over a six-month development cycle 

3. A thorough understanding of the Ubuntu release cycle and associated
   milestone and freeze dates

> 4. A thorough understanding of the Ubuntu Kernel SRU cadence

Reviewer: Suggest linking to the current SRU explanation page:
/explanation/stable-release-updates/#sru-cycle-cadence

Or maybe the Discourse post when the new cycle cadence was announced.

5. A thorough understanding of the upstream kernel development cycle and how it
   relates to the Ubuntu kernel development cycle

6. Demonstrate a chain of trust by having multiple sponsored kernel uploads
   over a six-month development cycle by various existing members of the
   ubuntu-kernel-uploaders team.

If you are not an official ubuntu-kernel-uploaders member yet, but fulfill all
of the criteria above, you are likely a promising candidate for joining the
team. If you are interested in joining, please start by preparing your
application. Please use the following template for your application:

https://wiki.ubuntu.com/Kernel/Dev/PPUApplicationTemplate

An example application can also be seen at the following: 

> https://wiki.ubuntu.com/LuisHenriques/PerPackageUploaderApplication 

Reviewer: We should consider including the template and sample application somewhere in this repo also.

Reviewer: I misunderstood the purpose of the page and template where the application process requires it to be in the applicant's Wiki.
These should be left as is.

Thanks!

> At least three existing ubuntu-kernel-uploaders members have to confirm that
> they have worked enough with you to judge your skills and that you meet the
> criteria above. Usually these three people are your sponsors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At least three existing ubuntu-kernel-uploaders members must confirm that they
have worked with you sufficiently to assess your skills and verify that you meet
the criteria above. These three individuals are typically your sponsors.
```

Screening Process
=================

Once your application has been prepared and you are ready to be screened,

> please send an email to the `Ubuntu kernel-team mailing list`_ requesting your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
send an email to the `Ubuntu kernel-team mailing list`_ requesting your
```

We can remove 'please'. It's a minor thing but not necessary.

application be reviewed.

You will then get a notification from the team about the scheduled IRC meeting
(#ubuntu-kernel channel at irc.libera.chat) where you will be interviewed and a
vote regarding your membership will be taken. 

As part of the interview you will be asked to briefly introduce yourself, so

> please prepare a 2-3 line introduction beforehand to speed up the process. Only

Reviewer: ```suggestion
prepare a 2-3 line introduction beforehand to speed up the process. Only
```

Same as previous comment; since this is a reference guide we can drop the 'please'.

existing members of the ubuntu-kernel-uploaders team are allowed to vote. An
applicant must receive a minimum of 3 Ack's in order to be added to the team. 

> .. _Ubuntu kernel-team mailing list: https://lists.ubuntu.com/mailman/listinfo/kernel-team

Reviewer: Is this link definition here instead of the end of the doc for a reason?
